# crumbs of thoughts

> Consistent Depth Maps Recoveryfrom a Video Sequence

## 两个目标

1. make the corresponding depth values in multiple frames _consistent_ 一致性，`意思是在视频 sequence 中要具有一致性？连续性？`
2. The other goal is to assign _distinctive_ depth values for pixels that fall in different depth layers 区别性 `要显著标记出不同深度？`

## contribute a global optimization scheme ---- 「bundle optimization」

This framework allows us to produce _sharp and temporal consistent object boundaries_ among different frames.

The _photo-consistency_ and _geometric coherence constraints associating different views_ are combined in a _global energy minimization framework_. They help reliably reduce the influence of image noise and occlusions with the multiframe data, and consequently, make our optimization free from the over- smoothing or blending artifacts.

[supplementary video](http://www.cad.zju.edu.cn/home/gfzhang/projects/videodepth/)

## related work

global optimization image segmentation bundle optimization space-time fussion

### Global and local optimization in Multiview Stereo

Multiview stereo algorithms estimate depths(disparity) with the input of multiple images.
Most of these methods adopt the _first-order smoothness priors_
For the slanted and curved 3D surfaces, some incorporate the _second-order smoothness priors_
for _stereo reconstruction_

- Early approaches used _local and window-based methods_, and employed a local _“winner-takes-all” (WTA)_ strategy in depth estimation.
- Later on, several _global_ methods formulate the depth estimation as an _energy-minimization problem_ and use _graph cuts_ or _belief propagation_ to solve it.
- Rencently, Woodford et al. proposed an effective optimization strategy that employs _triple cliques_ to estimate depth.

__HOWEVER__:

- The _global optimum_ is not always _computationally reachable_
- _Matching ambiguity_ in the _textureless regions_(少纹路的区域) or _occlusion boundaries_.

__KEY__: A appropriate definition of _energy_

__IN THIS PAPER__: a novel data term that combines the _photo-consistency_ and _geometric coherence_ constraints in a _statistical_ way.

### Segmentation based approaches

- Assuming that _neighboring pixels_ with _similar colors_ have _similar depth values_, some approaches were proposed to estimate the depth for _large textureless region_. This methods typically model each segmatation as a 3D plane and estimate the _plane parameters_ by matching small patches in neiboring views or using some robust fitting algorithms.
- _non-fronto-parallel_ plane can be constructed from _sparse 3D points_.

### Occusion handling

- Explicitly detecting the occlusions in disparity estimation.
- a hybrid method combining _shiftable windows_, _temporal selection_, _explicit occluded-pixel labeling_, within a _global minimization framework_
- __Visability Map__ is used to indicate whether a pixel in one image is also visible in another. Each pixel in the map has the value of 1 or 0.

### Multiview stereo methods for reconstructing 3D models

__Multiview Stereo(MVS)__ are developed to reconstruct 3D model from multiple input _images_. 

- A [survey](paper/taxonomy-IJCV.pdf). These methods aim to build a 3D model for a single object and are usually not applicable to large-scale sceneries due to the _high computational complexity and memory space requirement_.
- A method based on _multiple depth maps_ are more flexible requring fusing a _depth map_ into _3D model_. In these methods, the _visibility or geometric coherence constraint_ is typically used only for _fusion._
- _probalistic method_ proposed by Herna ́ndez et al.

### Recovering Consistent View-Dependent Depth Maps

Focus on recovering a set of consistent view-dependent depth maps from a video sequence in this paper. closed to the [19] and [15]
Their scheme is especially effective for _processing video data_ because it can effectively _suppress temporal outliers_ by making use of the _statistical information_ available from multiple frames.
Moreover, we use efficient _loopy belief propagation [10]_ to perform the overall optimization.
By appropriately _maintaining the temporal coherence_, surprisingly consistent and accurate dense depth maps can be obtained from the video sequences.

## Conclusion

### Advantages

1. based on the _geometry and photo-consistency constraints_, we cope with _visibility and reconstruction noise_ using the _statistical information_ simultaneously from multiple frames. This model considers occlusions, noise, and outliers in a unified framework.
2. our method only uses _segmentation- in _system initialization_, and performs _pixel-wise disparity refinement_ in the following _iterative bundle optimization._

### Set-backs

1. restricted to videos of a _static scene_. The depths for the _moving objects_ cannot be recovered since they do not satisfy the _multiview geometry constraint_

### Future Work

1. estimate a depth map from _sparse images_
2. build a _complete 3D model_
3. dynamic scenes / moving object

## 问题

- occlusion 到底是啥意思？
- fronto-parallel?
- the risk of spanning a segment over multiple layers?
- loopy belief propagation [10]